Pages knowledge base article (#2493)
18F/cg-site: _kbarticlespages/repository-best-practices.md

---
layout: post
title: "GitHub Repository Best Practices"
date: April 16, 2024
excerpt: Pages guide for mainitning GitHub hosted repositories
---

> Adhering to a set of best practices when it comes to managing GitHub repositories can greatly ease the maintenance burden and drastically improve the developer experience for websites hosted on cloud.gov Pages. It must be stated that this document should serve as a constructive conversation piece for agencies and not as an audit mechanism. Although by utilizing certain code scanning tools agencies may find it easier to identify and cover certain security controls within their respective Customer Responsibility Matrix (CRM). Here is a useful guide for you to get started with implementing some best practices regarding user permissions and security for your GitHub hosted repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adhering to a set of best practices when it comes to managing GitHub repositories can greatly ease the maintenance burden and drastically improve the developer experience for websites hosted on cloud.gov Pages. This document should serve as a constructive conversation piece for agencies and not as an audit mechanism. But by utilizing certain code scanning tools, agencies may find it easier to identify and cover certain security controls within their respective Customer Responsibility Matrix (CRM). Here is a useful guide for you to get started with implementing some best practices regarding user permissions and security for your GitHub hosted repositories.
```

## **Public vs Private repositories**

> A repository does *not need* to be public in order for Pages to be able to build the website, both public and private repositories are acceptable. When it comes to Pages there are certainly some unique considerations for each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A repository does *not need* to be public in order for Pages to be able to build the website; both public and private repositories are acceptable. When it comes to Pages there are certainly some unique considerations for each.
```

 #### **Public**

##### **Pros**
  - Easy for Pages engineers to access the codebase and provide support/debug
  - Transparency/High visibility
  - Able to utilize CodeQL free of charge
  - Seamless OpenSSF Allstar integration
  - Collaboration with outside contributors
  - Compliance with open source and transparency initiatives per agency/   program 

##### **Cons**
  - Any sensitive information inadvertently hardcoded is immediately visible 

#### **Private**

##### **Pros**
  - Restrict access to authorized collaborators and contributors (for any support issues a Pages engineer will request to be added as a collaborator to the repository if necessary)
  - Risk mitigation
  - Test/Make changes to a website without exposing commits to the public
  - Safeguard against any potential leaks of sensitive information

##### **Cons**
  - Not able to utilize CodeQL for free

>   - Potentially out of compliance with any agency/program transparency initiative

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Potentially out of compliance with agency/program transparency initiatives
```

>   - Safeguard sensitive data such as API keys, access tokens or other credentials in any configuration files by storing them as environment variables in `config.yml` for Jekyll sites or using `dotenv` to load values from a separate `.env` file for 11ty, Gatsby and Node.js websites as an additional layer of privacy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Safeguard sensitive data such as API keys, access tokens or other credentials by [using environment variables](https://cloud.gov/pages/documentation/env-vars-on-pages-builds/) in our build runtime.
```

## **User Permissions**

> It is important to designate admin/owner access of the repository to an individual(s) who is either the persistent site owner or a federal employee with the “manager” role within the Pages organization. It is strongly recommended to not grant admin/owner privileges of the repository to any contractors or other temporary employees. This is such due to certain instances where actions will need to be taken by either Pages engineers or customers where it will be necessary to have an active user with admin access to a website's repository. Additionally when adding contributors/collaborators to a private repository it should mirror the member count that your organization has within Pages. Please note that removing an organization member from an organization within Pages will **not** automatically remove them from the repository within GitHub. They will still retain whatever read/write access they have in GitHub until explicitly removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to designate admin/owner access of the repository to one or more individuals who are either the persistent site owners or else federal employees with the “manager” role within the site's Pages organization. It is strongly recommended to not grant admin/owner privileges of the repository to any contractors or other temporary employees. This is because in certain instances actions may need to be taken by either Pages engineers or by customers that require an active user with admin access to a website's repository. Additionally, when adding contributors or collaborators to a private repository it should mirror the member count that your organization has within Pages. Please note that removing an organization member from an organization within Pages will **not** automatically remove them from the repository within GitHub. They will still retain whatever read/write access they have in GitHub until explicitly removed.
```

## **Security**

### Dependabot

> Dependabot is a useful and highly configurable automated dependency management tool which assists developers with keeping third-party dependencies up-to-date with their latest version. It can be extremely beneficial to smaller agencies whose developer teams are limited or in some cases a single developer by reducing maintenance overhead. It scans the repository for outdated dependencies and generates pull requests against whatever branch it is enabled on to update them. Check out our [knowledge base article on Dependabot](https://cloud.gov/pages/knowledge-base/dependabot-with-pages/#configuring-dependabot) to view how to enable and configure it for your repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependabot is a useful and highly configurable automated dependency management tool which assists developers with keeping third-party dependencies up-to-date with their latest version. This can benefit agencies with smaller developer teams by reducing maintenance overhead. Dependabot scans the repository for outdated dependencies and generates pull requests against whatever branch it is enabled on to update them. Check out [our knowledge base article on Dependabot](https://cloud.gov/pages/knowledge-base/dependabot-with-pages/#configuring-dependabot) to learn how to enable and configure it for your repository.
```

### Branch Protection

> [Branch protection](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/managing-protected-branches/about-protected-branches) is a security feature within GitHub that limits users with write and push access the ability to push directly to any branch where branch protections are enabled. This includes but is not limited to requiring a pull request to merge code, setting the number of pull request reviews required, requiring status checks, dismissing approvals and other configuration options. With good branch protection settings you can protect your repository from an attack by a malicious actor with the stolen credentials from a single maintainer of that repository. 

Reviewer: I think "that limits users with write and push access the ability to push directly" needs to be reworded for clarity.

#### *Advanced Feature Settings for GitHub Repository Security* 

### OpenSSF Allstar

> [Allstar](https://github.com/ossf/allstar?tab=readme-ov-file#disabling-unwanted-issues-1) is an open source security tool which monitors organizations and repositories within GitHub for adherence to security best practices and improves the security posture for those organizations. It achieves this by continuously scanning repositories for any breach of enabled [security policies](https://github.com/ossf/allstar?tab=readme-ov-file#policies) and then raising an alert for any security remediation findings. An alert can be a GitHub issue or another type of configured action and in some instances it can automatically resolve the issue on the admin/owners behalf. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Allstar](https://github.com/ossf/allstar?tab=readme-ov-file#disabling-unwanted-issues-1) is an open source security tool which monitors organizations and repositories within GitHub for adherence to security best practices and improves the security posture for those organizations. It achieves this by continuously scanning repositories for any breach of enabled [security policies](https://github.com/ossf/allstar?tab=readme-ov-file#policies) and then raising an alert for any security remediation findings. This alert can be in the form of a GitHub issue or another type of configured action. In some instances Allstar can automatically resolve the issue on the admin/owner's behalf. 
```

---
layout: post
title: "GitHub Repository Best Practices"
date: April 12, 2024
excerpt: Pages guide for maintaining GitHub hosted repositories
---

Adhering to a set of best practices when it comes to managing GitHub repositories can greatly ease the maintenance burden and drastically improve the developer experience for websites hosted on cloud.gov Pages. This document should serve as a constructive conversation piece for agencies and not as an audit mechanism. But by utilizing certain code scanning tools, agencies may find it easier to identify and cover certain security controls within their respective Customer Responsibility Matrix (CRM). Here is a useful guide for you to get started with implementing some best practices regarding user permissions and security for your GitHub hosted repositories.

> ## **Public vs Private repositories**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Public vs Private repositories
```

Author: Going to rework the language so enhanced security isn't implied in any way.

A repository does *not need* to be public in order for Pages to be able to build the website; both public and private repositories are acceptable. When it comes to Pages there are certainly some unique considerations for each.

> ### **Public**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Public
```

> #### **Pros**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Pros
```

  - Easy for Pages engineers to access the codebase and provide support/debug
  - Transparency/High visibility
  - Able to utilize CodeQL free of charge
  - Seamless OpenSSF Allstar integration
  - Collaboration with outside contributors
  - Compliance with open source and transparency initiatives per agency/program 

> #### **Cons**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Cons
```

>   - Any sensitive information inadvertently hardcoded is immediately visible 

Reviewer 2: Since all published sites are public, the information would  probably affect both public and private repositories. I don't want to inadvertently give a customer a false sense of security with a private repo.

Author: Understood but if someone committed API keys to a `_config.yml` file for example in a private repository is that exposed anywhere other than in the build logs? That's more so what I was looking to convey

Reviewer 2: It starts to become very specific to the static site build engine and how they use their configuration settings. Many attributes in a Jekyll `_config.yml` get included with the site output. Let's leave this `Any sensitive information inadvertently hardcoded is immediately visible` here since it is true and let's adjust the other one to be very explicit.

> ### **Private**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Private
```

> #### **Pros**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Pros
```

>   - Restrict access to authorized collaborators and contributors (for any support issues a Pages engineer will request to be added as a collaborator to the repository if necessary)

Reviewer 2: Public repos have the same protections. I would remove this.

>   - Risk mitigation

Reviewer 2: This is general and not specific

  - Test/Make changes to a website without exposing commits to the public

>   - Safeguard against any potential leaks of sensitive information

Reviewer 2: Like the con for a public repo, Since all published sites are public, I don't want to inadvertently give a customer a false sense of security with a private repo.

Author: switched it up to explicitly state for any config files

> #### **Cons**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Cons
```

  - Not able to utilize CodeQL for free
  - Potentially out of compliance with agency/program transparency initiatives

> ## **Repository User Permissions**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Repository User Permissions
```

It is important to designate admin/owner access of the repository to one or more individuals who are either the persistent site owners or else federal employees with the “manager” role within the Pages organization. It is strongly recommended to not grant admin/owner privileges of the repository to any contractors or other temporary employees. This is because in certain instances where actions will need to be taken by either Pages engineers or by customers that require an active user with admin access to a website's repository. Additionally, when adding contributors or collaborators to a private repository it should mirror the member count that your organization has within Pages. Please note that removing an organization member from an organization within Pages will **not** automatically remove them from the repository within GitHub. They will still retain whatever read/write access they have in GitHub until explicitly removed.

> ## **GitHub Repository Security**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## GitHub Repository Security
```

### Branch Protection

[Branch protection](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/configuring-branches-and-merges-in-your-repository/managing-protected-branches/about-protected-branches) is a security feature within GitHub that limits users with write and push access the ability to push directly to any branch where branch protections are enabled. This includes but is not limited to requiring a pull request to merge code, setting the number of pull request reviews required, requiring status checks, dismissing approvals and other configuration options. With good branch protection settings you can protect your repository from an attack by a malicious actor with the stolen credentials from a single maintainer of that repository. 

> #### *Additional Advanced Feature Settings for GitHub Repository Security*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Additional Advanced Feature Settings for GitHub Repository Security
```

> ### OpenSSF Allstar

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### OpenSSF Allstar
```

[Allstar](https://github.com/ossf/allstar?tab=readme-ov-file#disabling-unwanted-issues-1) is an open source security tool which monitors organizations and repositories within GitHub for adherence to security best practices and improves the security posture for those organizations. It achieves this by continuously scanning repositories for any breach of enabled [security policies](https://github.com/ossf/allstar?tab=readme-ov-file#policies) and then raising an alert for any security remediation findings. This alert can be in the form of a GitHub issue or another type of configured action. In some instances Allstar can automatically resolve the issue on the admin/owner's behalf. 

> ### CodeQL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### CodeQL
```

[CodeQL](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/code-scanning/introduction-to-code-scanning/about-code-scanning), a GitHub open source security application, is a code analysis tool that automatically finds security vulnerabilities and other software bugs in codebases. Although primarily used for security analysis it can also be used for general code quality analysis as well. It is important to again note that CodeQL is only free to use on public repositories and GitHub Advanced Security must be purchased/enabled in order to utilize the tool on private repositories. 

> ### Signed Commits

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Signed Commits
```
